gh-93096: Update and document `pickle` CLI (#131097)
python/cpython: Doc/library/pickle.rst

      Release the underlying buffer exposed by the PickleBuffer object.

.. _pickle-cli:

Command-line interface

> ----------------------

Reviewer: Usually we put the CLI docs near the end of the page, after the library usage. Shall we move this down?

Author: It was looks like right place, right after `Module interface` and everything below seems like additional information
table of content:
![Screenshot from 2025-03-13 17-25-24](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/312f5485-d5be-44bb-87e1-4eb34ffc5321)

Reviewer: Although this additional information seems most relevant to library use?

Author: so between which sections do you think the place is more suitable?

Reviewer: After "Examples".

Author: moved, but before `see also` section, right?

> Command-line interface
> ----------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Command-line interface
----------------------
```

The :mod:`pickle` module can be invoked as a script from the command line,
it will display contents of the pickle files. However, when the pickle file
that you want to examine comes from an untrusted source, ``-m pickletools``
is a safer option because it does not execute pickle bytecode, see
:ref:`pickletools CLI usage <pickletools-cli>`.

.. code-block:: bash

>    python -m pickle [pickle_file ...]

Reviewer 2: With the `[...]` syntax, this means that the file is optional. What happens when you only do `python -m pickle`? is it an interactive CLI?

Author: I just used syntax from help message. output without any options:
```shell
$ ./python -m pickle
usage: python -m pickle [-h] [pickle_file ...]

display contents of the pickle files

positional arguments:
  pickle_file  the pickle file

options:
  -h, --help   show this help message and exit
```

Reviewer 2: Ok so no file actually prints the help:

```py
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(
        description='display contents of the pickle files')
    parser.add_argument(
        'pickle_file',
        nargs='*', help='the pickle file')
    args = parser.parse_args()
    if not args.pickle_file:
        parser.print_help()
    else:
        import pprint
        for fn in args.pickle_file:
            if fn == '-':
                obj = load(sys.stdin.buffer)
            else:
                with open(fn, 'rb') as f:
                    obj = load(f)
            pprint.pprint(obj)
```

not really sure it's useful. Maybe we could change it? cc @serhiy-storchaka

Reviewer 3: I suggest to change the parser to require at least one filename.

Reviewer 2: I think it would be helpful to do so. Can you update this @donBarbos?

Author: like this? https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/131097/commits/3b8efaed08823331adaf080f1d61683903ca7291

Reviewer 2: No, you should also change the `ArgumentParser` in `pickle.py` to ensure that `pickle_file` becomes a required argument and not an optional one (using '+' instead of '*' should do the job I think)

Reviewer 2: The syntax would then be `python -m pickle pickle_file [pickle_file ...]` (but check with the --help output)

Author: oh, i got it now. i thought this sentence was for a separate PR

Reviewer 2: Err... I think we can do it this one. Just make a single commit and if another core dev wants to have a separate PR you can just cherry-pick it and revert it here.

Author: done :+1:

Author: But i also set `python -m pickle pickle_file [pickle_file ...]` to docs example

> The following options are accepted:
> 

Reviewer: There's a single option (and it can be repeated).
```suggestion
The following option is accepted:

```
Or remove it?
```suggestion
```

Author: I changed to `The following option is accepted:`

.. program:: pickle

.. option:: pickle_file

>    The pickle file(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The pickle file.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe "A pickle file" instead? otherwise it may hint that there is only one expected file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A pickle file.
```

      Release the underlying buffer exposed by the PickleBuffer object.

.. _pickle-cli:

Command-line interface
----------------------

The :mod:`pickle` module can be invoked as a script from the command line,
it will display contents of the pickle files. However, when the pickle file
that you want to examine comes from an untrusted source, ``-m pickletools``
is a safer option because it does not execute pickle bytecode, see
:ref:`pickletools CLI usage <pickletools-cli>`.

.. code-block:: bash

   python -m pickle pickle_file [pickle_file ...]

The following option is accepted:

.. program:: pickle

.. option:: pickle_file

>    A pickle file, which can be a regular filename or a filepath.
>    Additionally, you can use ``-`` to read from standard input (stdin).
>    For example, you can pipe a pickle file to the script using a command like:
> 
>    .. code-block:: bash
>       echo ... | python -m pickle -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   A pickle file to read or ``-`` to indicate reading from standard input.
```

I don't think we need to explain what it means to read from stdin. Also, if we are to include the example, I think a working example would be preferred, but it's not a good idea to use an `echo` of a pickled content, so instead, let's just be a bit less precise. Note that it can (I think) be used as an interactive way as well.

.. pickletools.optimize() or the gzip module).

.. _pickle-cli:

Command-line interface
----------------------

The :mod:`pickle` module can be invoked as a script from the command line,
it will display contents of the pickle files. However, when the pickle file
that you want to examine comes from an untrusted source, ``-m pickletools``
is a safer option because it does not execute pickle bytecode, see
:ref:`pickletools CLI usage <pickletools-cli>`.

.. code-block:: bash

   python -m pickle pickle_file [pickle_file ...]

The following option is accepted:

.. program:: pickle

.. option:: pickle_file

>    A pickle file to read or ``-`` to indicate reading from standard input.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A pickle file to read, or ``-`` to indicate reading from standard input.
```
